# Sportswear_Store_Revenue_Optimization

SQL analysis on a hypothetical sportswear store that carries multiple brands to optimize its revenue and recommend strategies based on the available data which consist of five tables :finance, reviews, brands, info, and traffic  

The Schema of the Data Tables is Shown below: 

<p>Sports clothing and athleisure attire is a huge industry, worth approximately <a href="https://www.statista.com/statistics/254489/total-revenue-of-the-global-sports-apparel-market/">$193 billion in 2021</a> with a strong growth forecast over the next decade! </p>

<p>The database provided to us, <code>sports</code>, contains five tables, with <code>product_id</code> being the primary key for all of them: </p>
<h3 id="info"><code>info</code></h3>
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>column</th>
<th>data type</th>
<th>description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><code>product_name</code></td>
<td><code>varchar</code></td>
<td>Name of the product</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>product_id</code></td>
<td><code>varchar</code></td>
<td>Unique ID for product</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>description</code></td>
<td><code>varchar</code></td>
<td>Description of the product</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h3 id="finance"><code>finance</code></h3>
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>column</th>
<th>data type</th>
<th>description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><code>product_id</code></td>
<td><code>varchar</code></td>
<td>Unique ID for product</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>listing_price</code></td>
<td><code>float</code></td>
<td>Listing price for product</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>sale_price</code></td>
<td><code>float</code></td>
<td>Price of the product when on sale</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>discount</code></td>
<td><code>float</code></td>
<td>Discount, as a decimal, applied to the sale price</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>revenue</code></td>
<td><code>float</code></td>
<td>Amount of revenue generated by each product, in US dollars</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h3 id="reviews"><code>reviews</code></h3>
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>column</th>
<th>data type</th>
<th>description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><code>product_name</code></td>
<td><code>varchar</code></td>
<td>Name of the product</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>product_id</code></td>
<td><code>varchar</code></td>
<td>Unique ID for product</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>rating</code></td>
<td><code>float</code></td>
<td>Product rating, scored from <code>1.0</code> to <code>5.0</code></td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>reviews</code></td>
<td><code>float</code></td>
<td>Number of reviews for the product</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h3 id="traffic"><code>traffic</code></h3>
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>column</th>
<th>data type</th>
<th>description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><code>product_id</code></td>
<td><code>varchar</code></td>
<td>Unique ID for product</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>last_visited</code></td>
<td><code>timestamp</code></td>
<td>Date and time the product was last viewed on the website</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<h3 id="brands"><code>brands</code></h3>
<table>
<thead>
<tr>
<th>column</th>
<th>data type</th>
<th>description</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td><code>product_id</code></td>
<td><code>varchar</code></td>
<td>Unique ID for product</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td><code>brand</code></td>
<td><code>varchar</code></td>
<td>Brand of the product</td>
</tr>
</tbody>
</table>
<p>I will be dealing with missing data as well as numeric, string, and timestamp data types to draw insights about the products in the online store. I wanted to start by finding out how complete the data is, what type of data we have and generally getting a good grasp of the structure of the tables we have.</p>

## The First step - Counting Missing Values
I wanted to review the data generically and get a good understanding of the tables, the columns , and what type of data they contain so that I can better target my queries. 

## The Second Step - Nike vs. Adidas Pricing
I wanted to see how the pricing points between Nike and Adidas products differ? Answering this question can help us build a picture of the company's stock range and customer market.I will run a query to produce a distribution of the <code>listing_price</code> and the count for each price, grouped by <code>brand</code>. </p>

## The Third Step - Labeling Price Ranges
<p>I wanted build on our previous query by assigning labels to different price ranges, grouping by <code>brand</code> and <code>label</code>. We will also include the total <code>revenue</code> for each price range and <code>brand</code>. this will help better analyze the 77 unique prices for products in this database. </p>

## The Fourth Step - Average Discount By Brand
<p> Now, we have been looking at <code>listing_price</code> so far. The <code>listing_price</code> may not be the price that the product is ultimately sold for. To understand <code>revenue</code> better, let's take a look at the <code>discount</code>, which is the percent reduction in the <code>listing_price</code> when the product is actually sold. We would like to know whether there is a difference in the amount of <code>discount</code> offered between brands, as this could be influencing <code>revenue</code>.</p>

## The Fifth Step - Correlation Between Revenue & Reviews
<p> Now, we will explore whether relationships exist between the columns in our database. We will check the strength and direction of a correlation between <code>revenue</code> and <code>reviews</code>. </p>

## The Sixth Step - Ratings & Reviews By Product Description Length
<p> Perhaps the length of a product's <code>description</code> might influence a product's <code>rating</code> and <code>reviews</code> &mdash; if so, the company can produce content guidelines for listing products on their website and test if this influences <code>revenue</code>. I wanted to check this out!</p>

## The Seventh Step - Reviews By Month & Reviews
<p> Since I know a correlation exists between <code>reviews</code> and <code>revenue</code>, one approach the company could take is to run experiments with different sales processes encouraging more reviews from customers about their purchases, such as by offering a small discount on future purchases. </p>
<p>Let's also take a look at the volume of <code>reviews</code> by month to see if there are any trends or gaps we can look to exploit.</p>

## The Eighth Step - Footwear Product Performance
<p>So far, I have been primarily analyzing Adidas vs Nike products. Now, let's switch our attention to the type of products being sold. As there are no labels for product type, we will create a Common Table Expression (CTE) that filters <code>description</code> for keywords, then use the results to find out how much of the company's stock consists of footwear products and the median <code>revenue</code> generated by these items.</p>

## The Ninth Step - Clothing Products Performance
Our final task, I wanted to examine how median revenue differs to clothing products from footwear products. We will re-use <code>footwear</code>, adding a filter afterward to count the number of products and <code>median_revenue</code> of products that are not in <code>footwear</code>.</p>

# Insights & Recommendations

## Recommendations to the Store
1. **<p> Since Adidas items generate more total revenue regardless of price category, Specifically, <code>"Elite"</code> Adidas products priced \$129 or more typically generate the highest revenue, so the company can potentially increase revenue by shifting their stock to have a larger proportion of these products!</p>**

2. **<p> Adidas products generate the most revenue and their products are also heavily discounted!
 To improve revenue further, the company could try to reduce the amount of discount offered on Adidas products, and monitor sales volume to see if it remains stable. </p>** 
 
3. **The Store could try offering a small discount on Nike products. This would reduce average revenue for these products, but may increase revenue overall if there is an increase in the volume of Nike products sold**

4. **<p> As there is a strong positive correlation between <code>revenue</code> and <code>reviews</code>. This means, potentially, if we can get more reviews on the company's website, it may increase sales of those items with that have larger number of reviews. </p>**

5. **<p> Unfortunately, there doesn't appear to be a clear pattern between the length of a product's <code>description</code> and its <code>rating</code>.</p>**

6. **<p> Due to the correlation that exists between <code>reviews</code> and <code>revenue</code>, one approach the company could take is to run experiments with different sales processes encouraging more reviews from customers about their purchases, such as by offering a small discount on future purchases. </p>**

7. **<p> product reviews are highest in the first quarter of the calendar year, so there is scope to run experiments aiming to increase the volume of reviews in the other nine months!</p>**

8. **<P> there are 3,117 products without missing values for <code>description</code>. Of those, 2,700 are footwear products, which accounts for around 85% of the company's stock. They also generate a median revenue of over $3000 dollars!</p>**

9. **On the Oppposite end, the median revenue for clothing products is only $503. this can be looked at in two ways: there is plenty of room for growth on clothing lines for both brands, and two if the goal is to optimize the revenue short term then focusing on footwear would yield the best ROI, however, if there is a considerable time-frame then allocating resources to clothing lines would be more benefical in the long-term.**


## Project Idea Source:
This project was based off of datasets that are found on DataCamp.com. 
